# BananaBounce
Game I developed for my Game Design Class taught by Dr. Hibbs at Trinity University. Made in Unity. 

In the game BananaBounce, the PlayerTransition script acts as the central script for the game, and is attached to the center Tree in the game. Within this script, not only is the transition between the left and right Monkeys handled, but also the countdown timer is maintained, and the points are tracked to help determine the outcome of the game. Within this script, the Coconut and Clown components are also kept track of. Essentially, this script handles most parts of the game, excluding the object pool used to maintain the Bananas. This script keeps track of the Monkey game objects through an array, and transitions the active Monkey by determining which Monkey is higher up on screen (higher on the seesaw). The PlayerTransition script displays which Monkey is active, as well as displays the time left. This script also keeps track of the Clown and Coconut game objects, and collects ‘tokens’ from them every time they are intersected by a Monkey. When a token is collected from the Clown, up to 10 Bananas are taken from the Monkeys. When a token is collected from the Coconut, 15 seconds is added to the countdown timer, giving the player more gameplay time. During the final 6 seconds of the game, a countdown warning of “Dance Monkey, Dance!” is displayed. If the player ends with less than 10 Bananas, they are transitioned to the DeathSad final scene. If the player ends with more than 10 Bananas, they are transitioned to the DeathHappy final scene. 
The PlayerMovement script handles the movement for the Monkeys. The script is attached to a Monkey game object, and includes the two variables grounded and active. The grounded variable is true if the Monkey has made contact with the see-saw. The active variable is determined through the PlayerTransition script by seeing which Monkey is higher up (and therefore active on the see-saw). If a Monkey is active, it has the ability to move left and right (through use of the Input Axis system). If a Monkey is active and grounded, meaning it is on the see-saw and higher up than its sibling Monkey, then it is given the ability to jump. In the PlayerMovement update function, the position of the Monkey is also tracked to help prevent the Monkey from moving off the see-saw or jumping too high (and flying off screen). 
The CoconutMovement and ClownMovement scripts are very similar, and attach to a Coconut and Clown gameobject, respectively. These scripts keep track of if the gameobject is active and if the gameobject is on the screen. These scripts also have a token variable, which is collected in the PlayerTransition script, and represents than the game object has intersected a Monkey and been set inactive. These scripts generate a random number to be used to determine if the object will be set active. In the event that the object is set active, the object will first be spawned using its respective generate method, which places the object slightly off the boundary of the screen. Then in every update, the object is moved across the screen until it either leaves the screen (and then is set inactive), or is intersected by a Monkey (which sets token true and makes the object inactive). 
The BananaPool script acts as the secondary central script for the game, and is also attached to the center Tree in the game. Within this script, all the Banana objects are kept track of in the array Bananas (which represents the pool of Bananas). The total tally of points/Bananas collected is also tracked. Initially, there is a 25% that a Banana in the pool will be set active. Every update, this probability is lowered to a 1% chance that a Banana in the pool is set active. Every update, each Banana in the object pool is checked to see if it has an active token. These tokens are collected, and are added as points/Bananas collected. 
The design pattern implemented is the Object Pool design. To implement this, the array Bananas holds all the Banana game objects that have been created. In BananaBounce, there are only a total of five Banana game objects. These objects are set active as needed, and are recycled in and out of the screen during the game. When it was decided that a Banana should be active (and therefore spawned), that Banana within the pool was set active; after this, the rest of the Banana activity is handled in the BananaMovement script. The Banana object itself will determine where it is spawned, and also when it should be set inactive. When it is set inactive, the Banana is moved off screen, and waits to be reactivated through the BananaPool script. I choose this pattern because I wanted to reuse the same Banana objects during the game, so that no issues with memory or performance would arise from generating too many Banana objects. 
The BananaMovement script handles a Banana once it has been set active. This script is attached to a Banana object. Note that a Banana object cannot set itself active; this can only be done through the object pool. However, once the Banana is set active, it will spawn itself onto the screen, and determine its direction/handle movement across the screen.  If a Banana is intersected by a Monkey, its token value is set active (this token will be collected in BananaPool) and the Banana is set inactive. If the Banana has moved off screen, it is set inactive as well. Otherwise, the Banana is moved across the screen every update. 
The LoadScene script holds functions that can be used to transition between scenes such as the IntroScreen and Instructions. 
Music downloaded from purple-planet.com. Fonts downloaded from 1001freefonts.com. 
